Tutorial to start a new Telestion project (#110)
wuespace/telestion-docs: docs/application/tutorials/start-a-new-project.mdx

---

> title: Start a new Project
> # e.g., "Publishing messages to the event bus" or "Installing a dependency using npm"
> 
> description: Start a new Telestion Project with the Telestion Project template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Starting a new Project
# e.g., "Publishing messages to the event bus" or "Installing a dependency using npm"

description: Start a new Telestion Project with the Telestion Project template
```

  solve a technical problem)
- "Managing dependencies with npm" (Guide, including both technical knowledge, but
  also best practices and more)

=== Writing tips:
- Write in the present tense
- Use neutral pronouns (they/them instead of he/she and him/her)
- Be respectful to everyone
- Be aware of the potential for cultural misunderstandings
- Provide explanations for what you do, but focus on the step-by-step guide
  without deeply explaining every technical decision and why it's best prcatice
  to do so (you can describe best practices in a guide, a tutorial must focus on
  keeping the "step by step" flow going)
-->

<!-- Relevant imports: -->

import { Reference, Image } from '/components';

<!-- Short description of what the article covers: -->

In this tutorial, we start a new Telestion Project based on the provided template.

:::info Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you should be familiar with the functionality of Git and the usage of GitHub templates 
as well as the GitHub web interface.

:::

## What we'll build

A "ready to implement" project for your specific groundstation-related problem.

## Step 1: Create a new Project repository

> First, log in into GitHub with your user account.
> 
> Head to our project template and press the `Use this template button`.
> 
> <Reference to="https://github.com/wuespace/telestion-project-template">
>   Telestion Project Template
> </Reference>
> 
> <Image src="/img/new-project/github-use-this-template.png" alt="GitHub's Use this template button" />
> 
> Now, GitHub asks you some required information.
> Please select suitable user/group and give the repository a meaningful name.
> 
> Next, select your repository's visibility.
> When you are satisfied with your information, press the `Create repository from template` button.
> 
> <Image src="/img/new-project/github-create-repo.png" alt="GitHub's Create repository from template interface" />
> 
> That's it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, log into GitHub with your user account.

Head to our project template and press the `Use this template button`.

<Reference to="https://github.com/wuespace/telestion-project-template">
  Telestion Project Template
</Reference>

<Image src="/img/new-project/github-use-this-template.png" alt="GitHub's Use this template button" />

Now, GitHub asks you some required information.
Select a suitable user/group and give the repository a meaningful name.

Next, select your repository's visibility.
When you are satisfied with your information, press the `Create repository from template` button.

<Image src="/img/new-project/github-create-repo.png" alt="GitHub's Create repository from template interface" />

That's it!
```

## Step 2: Initialize the new project

> Now, you should have a new repository under your control.
> 
> Next, initialize the Telestion project.
> The template ships with a GitHub action which does the Initialzation steps for you.
> 
> Go to the `Actions` tab and select the `Initialize` in the left sidebar.
> 
> <Image src="/img/new-project/github-actions-initialize.png" alt="GitHub Actions page with the selected Initialize action" />
> 
> Now press the `Run workflow` button in the Action list.
> In the popup enter your preferences and then press `Run workflow`.
> 
> <Image src="/img/new-project/github-initialize-run-workflow.png" alt="Open popup to run the Initialize workflow in GitHub Actions" />
> 
> :::tip Java package naming
> 
> It is recommended to follow the 
> [Maven Central `groupId` naming conventions](https://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-naming-conventions.html), 
> e.g. beginning with the company url in reverse.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you should have a new repository under your control.

Next, initialize the Telestion project.
Our template already has a GitHub Action configuration that does the initialization steps for you.

Go to the `Actions` tab and select the `Initialize` in the left sidebar.

<Image src="/img/new-project/github-actions-initialize.png" alt="GitHub Actions page with the selected Initialize action" />

Now press the `Run workflow` button in the Action list.
In the popup, enter your preferences and then press `Run workflow`.

<Image src="/img/new-project/github-initialize-run-workflow.png" alt="Open popup to run the Initialize workflow in GitHub Actions" />

:::tip Java package naming

We recommend following the
[Maven Central `groupId` naming conventions](https://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-naming-conventions.html), 
e.g., beginning with the company URL in reverse.

:::
```

## Next steps

<!-- Short concluding sentence: -->

That's it! Now you have a new Telestion Project ready for development.

<!-- Links to next steps/related articles -->

> Next steps: Coming soon™

Reviewer: Looking forward to that 😁

Author: :wink:
